all right
hello are we live yep we're live
hello everyone this is your dailydose
internet here you see dailydose having a
nice chat with the famous dr k
that's cool man i like that voice all
right awesome we're so
we're doing it let's go let's go how you
uh and what do you go by
uh jason or dailydose or uh pretty much
anything really okay the minecraft
people call me big d
so that's great
i'll take anything um yeah so uh
thanks for coming on first of all um i
think so far you know we haven't doxed
you
you revealed your identity we're going
to try to see how long we can keep that
going well
it's it's one of those things like um
i mean it's not impossible to find a
quick google search we'll
get you exactly what you want to see um
i mean it's not like
we can see the big d on google no
you can go to google images we'll help
you out with that
um but you know it's just one of those
things where a lot of people just don't
want to have the magic
ruined for whatever reason and they have
their own idea of what i look like and i
don't want to ruin that
that that magic for them so it's totally
up to them
okay cool and jason is there something
in
uh thank you very much for you know
coming on um it's
it's cool to hear the you know you go
into the voice
yeah i mean it's kind of cool so i
basically add a little bit of stress on
it i mean my
i use my like you know my regular voice
but if i want to like i
add a little bit of stress and the
reason why i do that is because
i want to make it sound as clear as
possible because
i it's an international audience so i
get people from
all around the world and they're like
wow you know um
you know i'm just learning english and i
like watching your videos because it
helps me
practice and learn my english because
you speak so so so clearly
um so i'm like yes that's exactly what i
was kind of shooting for i want to sound
as clear as possible for
as many people to understand the point
i'm trying to get across and
yeah there you go that's cool but you
have very
very clear like a crisp diction i guess
yeah
i mean yeah that's i i didn't really
i never connected those dots until you
kind of set it that that
it is yeah i mean i obviously i add
stress on it for
on purpose yeah um yeah it's cool
um is there something in particular that
you want to talk about today or
anything that we can help you with well
i don't i don't know i mean i'm
i don't know exactly what you've already
covered but
like i i think it's interesting um from
my perspective
on on what you know your what
most youtubers go through what they have
to go through and from a mental health
aspect in what they have to overcome
what they have to conquer and what they
deal with on a
on a daily basis is really interesting
um
i don't know like for me personally it's
it's interesting how my whole life
changed
um because of youtube um you know i
didn't really use social media much
um is just kind of um
i i really didn't and now that it's
i use it every day it's my job i'm it's
my
i have to be on you know instagram and
tic tac and youtube and
all this stuff for many hours a day and
i just wonder
um you know if there will be any
negative
impact on that in the future um
because i have seen in my own life how
um
it's almost like my perspective on what
is
considered normal and what is considered
um what's the correct term is
what is considered normal is what's
considered normal on instagram is not
considered normal
on everyday life sure so so basically
it it only shows the good and it kind of
distorts my view on reality
and um i'm not saying like oh social
media
i'm saying like i i truly believe in
some aspects of my life it has distorted
my view
of reality and yeah so i just
i just wonder years from now how what's
going to happen
you know when we because social media is
still relatively new
years years from now when all these
studies come out what's going to be the
negative impact of social media and
what's
and how is it distorting other people's
views because
i mean you know when you spend multiple
hours
every day on social media no days off
what's what what does that do to you are
you afraid of what it's doing to you
that's what i'm afraid of i am afraid
because i don't know
it's this is this is unknown territory
in the scientific world because we
really don't know it's
like i said sign yeah social media is
very very new
um and we don't you know we don't have a
ton of studies on this we don't have
decades of you know studies on the
impact of social social media on
someone um so i'm just i just don't know
what's going to happen so i
hopefully nothing bad but you know i
don't know yeah so so i i think um we
don't
so it's interesting so i'm going to
start just a touch like
abstract academic or philosophical i
think unfortunately
i don't know if we're ever really going
to have studies on it
and there's a really simple reason for
that and that is that
the pace at which science studies
something
is far slower than the pace at which
social media is evolving
right so this is like kind of different
i mean this is
relatively new in the history of science
so if you look at medicine
right like people have been breaking
their legs for like millions of years
people have been getting infections for
millions of years people have had
hearts and lungs and hypertension for
millions and millions of years
people have had cancer for millions and
millions of years
now there are new kinds of cancer right
so when people like started smoking
tobacco
there's like lung cancer and then we can
study that but like people have been
smoking tobacco for hundreds of years
i think there's something really
interesting going on when it comes to
things like video game addiction mental
health impacts of social media where
like
you know there are studies like sort of
coming out
now about like facebook
right and like that doesn't even account
like it's not even the current iteration
of facebook
it's like a study published today
measured people's like facebook usage
three years ago and like facebook is
different now
oh that's true it's constantly changing
isn't it it's not the same
whereas cancer will just remain you know
yeah so cancer will change a little bit
right like we've got covid
covid is like relatively new but also
we've had coronaviruses i mean the
common cold is a coronavirus
so we like have known a bunch about
coronaviruses we know about you
so there's like there's evolution in
medicine but generally speaking science
can keep up
with the change of like physical
medicines pacing
right whereas social media is evolving
so rapidly and technology is evolving so
rapidly like
we still don't really have a clear sense
of whether you know what the risk of
keeping your cell phone in your pocket
is
for testicular cancer like those are the
kinds of studies that we're
kind of like i i i've always worried
about that so i like i always keep my
back pocket i'm like i'd rather get butt
cancer than yeah
but cancer ain't pretty though no it
isn't but um
so so yeah i mean
there's just a lot of weird responses to
that statement like you can actually
just remove a testicle and like
you'll be if you get you know can't
can't remove your butt
um i guess not i mean you can if you use
instagram filters i suppose but
um anyway so i think like that's one of
the really interesting things where as a
mental health professional like i don't
i've i've come to an interesting
realization and
i'm sure that history will prove me
wrong because history produce proves
most physicians wrong
um so i actually i i know it's gonna
prove me wrong because
we're actually working on that but uh
i think that the old system of studying
things
is too slow and so
you know we're going to have to adapt
and so one way that we adapt as an
organization is like i
i don't think we need to worry so much
about what effects it's going to have on
you
because i think you already know like
this is the cool thing about clinical
medicine is that you don't need studies
right like you work with a patient
you work with an individual and based on
working with an individual you can learn
a lot
so like my question for you jason is
like how has social media already
affected you
uh well i just i just feel like
um i don't want to get too personal
about that um but i do
feel that we need a need i think there's
a need for
disclosing when photoshop is used
on in pictures and stuff i just feel
like
there has to be some sort of law of some
sort because
it's it's so easy to um to
you know edit a photo on ins on
instagram or even on tic tac or whatever
and to show something that's just not
true and
you you're constantly flooded with this
idea that oh my gosh
she looks like this oh my gosh this guy
has yeah uh so many cars and stuff like
that idea of a false reality gets
embedded as truth
and it can really distort your view on
on reality
and i just think it's really dangerous
and we really have
there's nothing we can really do about
that um in terms of preventing people
from doing that i mean anyone can
do whatever they want that's i mean
that's the beauty of it you can do
whatever you want
but also it's like you kind of have to
take it with a grain of salt like hey
watch out not everything that you see on
social media
is factual try not to um
try not to dive too deep into that yeah
so
you know it would be interesting i think
you're you're kind of talking about a
macro solution to a macro problem
so as people you know if if people had
to state when a filter was used like i
think that's
one step in the right direction
i still think though that i mean you
know i don't
how can i say this when you look at a
pic
you know when you look at 10 pretty
people in a row on instagram and there's
a little disclaimer in the bottom right
corner that a filter was used
i don't know that your brain is really
going to feel any less
yeah inadequate right
right i don't know i guess i don't know
i just don't know if there's
an answer for this sort of situation um
because i think
i think it well not a not a
i guess i would just yeah delete
instagram delete you know social media
not the one that i was thinking of but
that's an answer too
why what were you thinking well because
i i think that there are two things that
you can
there are two dimensions that you can
act right one is on the outer world
and one is on you
so so you know you were asking at the
very beginning you were kind of talking
about what youtubers face what content
creators kind of face in terms of mental
health challenges and
this is where like we've actually
learned a lot and there are things that
you can do right so like like so
let me just give you kind of a quick
example and if i'm getting too far
off track for you just let me know no
you're good so so i think the really
cool thing is if you look at like
ancient like
india and china there was a lot of
research that was done on like how the
mind functions like in its
fundamental parts so we have this thing
called
ego or ahamgara is what they call it
so ahamkada is sort of translated as ego
but technically the translation is like
the i feeling
the feeling of i so it also gets
translated as like your sense of
identity
and what the yogi's kind of figured out
is that there are some things that will
cause the ahamkara to like
get worse so comparison is a good
example
so like a comparison makes our ego or
our sense of self feel worse
what's that quote uh comparison as a
thief of joy
yeah i've heard that a lot recently
right yeah absolutely it's it's a
fantastic quote
and so the yogis also said that the
greater you're a hum god and the more
you're suffering
which is yeah well i mean since you're
on that topic i kind of did dive into
into buddhism because i was really
interested in that because
basically it's all it's like everything
in life
is like life is pain life is life is
miserable
and um it's it's like
understanding that life oh my gosh i i
forgot i had a really good quote for
this
um but i did dive into buddhism it was
just really interesting because i i
really felt connected to it because it's
like
er life is pain life is miserable but
like we it's just the way we go about it
gosh i'm sorry i haven't i haven't dived
into in a while but
i i was really obsessed with buddhism
for about six months ago
and can you help me understand why you
got interested in it
i mean it's because
gosh this is this is embarrassing
because i
i was like obsessed with it for the
longest time and now i can't remember
either hold on hold on jason jason this
is a good opportunity close your eyes
okay what are you feeling right now
um well i i'm frustrated because i wanna
i wanna figure out i had a really good
quote yep it was so awesome
yeah i couldn't find it yeah so so so
how does it feel
stop looking for the quote okay eyes
closed
how does it so notice like the
intolerability
you gotta find it you see what your mind
is doing well i think that's just my
adhd as well
sure so that's still your mind but you
you got to find it right
and what happens if you didn't find it
i get frustrated because i want to share
this this amazing
knowledge with so many people and i
can't share it yeah right
so like can you let that go
no i like educating i like educating
people
i love i love teaching people i i'm i'm
very
passionate about teaching which is why i
love my job
okay find a quote bro
if you want to hold up three it's gonna
take three seconds here i got this okay
okay i finally found it um oh
oh so that's it everyone is suffering
everyone is suffering with something
life is suffering and um
i three so all life is suffering the
second point is
the cause of all suffering is desire
and to remove
to remove the suffering you have to
remove the desire that's the three
points
so from the top all life is suffering
the cause of suffering is desire and to
remove the suffering
you have to remove the desire and i
really connected with that on buddhism i
thought it was really interesting
okay how do you feel having shared that
because i feel like i i just feel like i
i shared knowledge with people how does
that feel yeah
right so now this is really tricky
because
you had a desire to share it yes
and as a result i was suffering i was
suffering
because of my desire ah but to share you
shared and once you shared you were
happy
right and so then how do we approach
those noble truths that you have there
right so what how do we say because it
didn't i mean wouldn't you say that
if you you know the fulfillment of
desire leads to happiness
um i don't know because that's what
happened with you just now right yeah
yeah
yeah yeah good about yourself right
right that's correct
so why isn't that on there why isn't one
on there
that i feel like your desires leads to
happiness
um i i
i mean i guess i maybe maybe just a
little bit of happiness but
i i do i do feel connected in the in in
those
those noble truths there because it's
almost like i just i just feel
so kind because there's just pain
there's suffering everywhere
and it's all because we have a desire
and if with with desire comes suffering
and it's just
you know if you want something you got
to work for it and that's the most basic
form of desire uh you know you're gonna
suffer and you will be rewarded
but you're gonna suffer to get it yeah
so so this is kind of interesting right
because i i don't think that
the noble truth say anything about a
reward through suffering
no but i'm just kind of like
piggybacking off what you just said
because there is a
i guess there is a reward but even if
it's just for a short amount of time
yeah so that's that's the key thing
right so if we if so i think what
buddhism discovers so like let's talk
about a cookie for example
like so if i want to eat a cookie and i
eat the cookie
am i happy
what what was your objective did you
want to eat
yeah you wanted you wanted to i wanted
the cookie man it's a warm
freshly baked chocolate chip cookie bro
and after you eat it do you feel any
sort of regret
sure okay then
i don't know what to say right so so so
i'll ask you when you eat
do you like chocolate chip cookies i
love chocolate chip cookies everyone
does
yeah and when you eat a chocolate chip
cookie do you feel regret
um well maybe a little bit
but i'm also kind of a health freak
let's see
so this is this is what this is what the
what this discovered
you [ __ ] asked me a question i asked
you the same damn question and your
answer is at least a little bit
so right
so like this is the crazy thing about
even satisfying your desire which we
think makes us happy
but then the more that you look at it
okay one cookie oh no now it's gone
there's suffering there i want another
one
exactly it's so goofy because i almost
feel like it applies to everything in
life
yes are you are you
are you buddhist sure
i don't i don't know because you seem
very knowledgeable because i feel like a
lot of people don't
aren't unaware of this yeah so i'm
pretty knowledgeable about buddhism but
i i think
so the first thing is like buddhism is
like not really religion
no it's just a way of life yeah so so
like in buddhism is essentially like
i mean i'm sure a lot of buddhists will
take offense to this but
you know it's an outgrowth of like what
we call the hindu tradition
right so there's particular like their
hinduism is a
is also not really a religion because
it's so many different things it's
simultaneously
atheistic monotheistic and polytheistic
so i sort of know that
yeah so i sort of follow the the branch
of hinduism
which is like sort of atheistic
which is sort of basically buddhism
cool but whether it's hinduism or
buddhism i mean buddha grew up in india
all of his teachings
you know come from his own experiences
but are rooted in
quote-unquote hindu traditions but all
of those like
all of those labels and ownership of
what
is who is like all western those are all
like based on monotheistic
judeo-christian conceptions of religion
which is you are
something or you aren't something which
like that concept doesn't really apply
to what i call
the karmic religions right yeah
i don't know i've always been fascinated
with um i've always been fascinated with
just learning about different religions
learning about different ways of life
how to live
i've always been a very uh i'm not
saying like oh i'm a
i'm a scholar or anything but i've
always been very fascinated with
like um you know psychology and
um philosophers and what's wrong with
saying you're a scholar
what is the definition of a scholar
i think it's what you do
what i do on daily dose internet
i think you're a scholar that's
that's a wonderful compliment thank you
so much
all right i don't feel that way either
but
why not well i don't know
i thought a scholar was someone who who
um
who really dived into something and they
uh
they they're extremely knowledgeable
much more
because i i just scratched the surface
and everything i go oh that's
interesting and they kind of move on
okay yeah so so you know how would you
know when you've gone far enough
um what's the there's i don't know who
said the quote this um
ancient quote they said i know that
i know that i know nothing so that's the
answer to that question
yeah okay you never know you never know
okay so do you feel like you don't
understand buddhism well enough
i don't i mean i forgot the three noble
truths
doesn't that by definition make you a
scholar
i guess i guess so is i guess is if
anyone has a
ounce of curiosity they are a scholar
so you just you just inflated the egos
of so many
so many people who might be unknown
interestingly enough i think it's your
ego that gets in the way of you like
calling yourself a scholar
what do you mean that means i don't have
an ego then no no i think it's you're
actually your ego so your ego says i'm
not good enough to be a scholar
this is the way that real scholars are
and look at me
i'm just an amateur well i
this is so goofy i've never thought
about this yeah i mean
i guess i guess you're right right
you're saying it's there's a voice in
your head that says
i am not this that's [ __ ] ego
yeah i'm the best person in the world
[ __ ] ego i'm the worst person in the
world [ __ ] ego
you know i was thinking about this the
other day i was like when i was growing
up when i was a teenager i really
i truly believe i knew everything like i
thought i was so smart i
you know i don't need my parents help
all this stuff and then i got older i
went oh my gosh i don't know anything
i know nothing and it's so goofy how
that works out
yeah so i think that that's how do you
think that happened
uh i gosh hormones or something i'm not
sure
if only hormones could make people
humble the world would be a very
different place
[Laughter]
i have no idea here's an injection of
the humble hormone
yeah so i think you know jason you
mentioned
i asked you one semi-personal question
and you kind of steered away from it so
if you really want to know how that hap
happened i i would
have to we could explore that together
because i suspect like i don't think it
was just
hormones i think that i think what makes
you
scholarly i don't know what a skull i
mean is that a job i don't know
but what makes you scholarly is i think
you're curious and i think you know you
devote
what attention your mind is capable of
on on a particular thing
um and i think that our society tends to
undervalue
breadth of knowledge to depth of
knowledge yeah
yeah i don't i don't think that depth of
knowledge is
necessarily superior to breath of
knowledge
you know i wasn't always really curious
like i'm i'm i'm more curious than i've
ever been in my life i i just want to
know the answers to everything and then
the more answers i find the more
the more questions i get and i if that
does
that sort of [ __ ] scholar i mean
i don't know i don't know but like
because i
i was never this curious i mean um i
said this
i said this to some of my friends i said
i i felt like i lived
uh i think i even made a tweet about
this i felt like i lived
on my life on autopilot up until i was
about
maybe maybe i was about 23
and that's when the first time i i truly
felt like i was awake
as i i truly felt awake for the very
first time in my life and
oh my gosh and i i just got extremely
curious about everything around me
and i think it's because you know i
graduated from college and
it's my first time living on my own and
i go wait
no one's telling me what to do where to
go and it's like the first time in my
entire life that i've had to make my own
decisions
and that kind of just opened up my
entire uh
personality to trying to figure out life
how did that happen well it's because
i mean um i had a i had
a wonderful wonderful upbringing with
loving parents and loving family
however for some reason well a couple
problems here
i since i had adhd growing up
my that caused a lot of problems and it
caused a lot of self-doubt in me
and it caused me to be extremely reliant
on my parents for their opinions
for on my career goals anything
uh what i should do they helped me with
everything which is great but it left me
very helpless so i had no self
self identity like if you just if you
asked me what my personality was when i
was in high school i'd
be like i have no idea i don't i truly
didn't feel like i had a sense
of of self whatsoever um
and then that that sense of self grew in
college but it really
took off after college because it was
the first time i was really on my own i
wasn't reliant on my parents or anything
at all
and um i was able to to
become my own person and it's beautiful
like a little
blooming flower can you tell us about
that person now
um well i don't know it's just a
like i said i was very timid i had no
self-confidence and the biggest thing is
that
the best way for someone to grow
confidence
is to be good at something this this
youtube thing is the first time i've
ever had confidence in my life
and i've said this many times i i thank
people on twitter
all the time i go you know thank you for
changing my life
youtube changed my life it gave me a
sense of
of confidence that i've never had my
life i was never good at anything i was
never good i mean
never good enough at anything to be
considered you know
uh whatever um so this is the first time
in my life where i was actually
better at other people at this um for
for whatever reason
and it grew my confidence and it didn't
make me cocky or anything but it made me
go like oh my gosh like i feel proud
of of what i've accomplished which is
something i've never really felt before
in my life
and yeah yeah sorry go keep going
i don't think i had anything else uh and
what did you accomplish
jason um like i said um
when i i quit my i quit my job at the
bank uh
so february 2nd was my last
my last day uh so three years ago
okay so fibroid cycle was three days ago
that was the three year anniversary of
me quitting my job at the bank
and i was working at the bank and i
worked there for two years after college
and i didn't know what to do i only went
there because my
my uncle helped me get a job he you know
he knew a guy who knew a guy so help me
get a job
um but that was not my decision that was
not my my life goal that was not my
so obviously how am i supposed to have
confidence in something that i know
nothing true um also that job i did not
need a college degree for
i literally felt i felt like a monkey
pushing buttons
um so it's just it's just unfortunate
because my parents
and me spent so much money on my college
degree just to
be a monkey pushy button pushing button
so
i'm happy that i got out of there but i
really grew
into my sense of self once i did
something on my own like my
when i told my my family like i think i
want to quit the bank and do youtube
full-time
and like i got a lot of backlash oh no
no no you got to save the bank you got
to say because you get you know it's
that makes sense our parents grew up in
a time when it's you know
the internet's the unknown the scary
place you don't know what's going to
happen
and i'm like i'm going to try this i
know it goes against everything that my
family
really wants me to do and i i relied on
on their advice for such the long
such a long time and it was the first
time i went i
don't want to take your advice and i
felt very empowering because i felt
confident enough i was like i
really as a fir seriously the first time
i really didn't take my
my family's advice i was like i want to
do this i want to give it a shot
i don't i don't want to pressure you um
with what i'm going to say i just want
to share something i just really wish
people could see her face right now
yeah yeah um i i we don't know
you think i'm pretty no i think your
face says a lot i mean i think people
can tell
what your words mean but i think like
you can see like the hope there's you
know
yeah there's a good i'm not i'm not i'm
not saying we should change anything i'm
just
commenting we'll we'll see we'll see
what people people do next time huh we
could do another one
yeah whatever well it's worth it i just
maybe it was inappropriate for me to say
but i just wanted to
let let me put it this way i really i
really enjoyed being able to see your
face in that moment so i'm glad you're
on video
at least for me
and we're not going anywhere close your
eyes all right what happened
we're going to do it again we're going
to measure what's the desire what's
happening we're going to play this game
round two how do you feel about
going on camera in front of the internet
i think it'll be funny
but i mean i've done i've done this
before i did the um
i'm not i'm not afraid or anything i
mean i've i've shown my face
like a few times on the internet so it's
whatever but like i'm not
it's not like a big face review or
anything you can just but at the same
time i've never really um
done like a uh like a podcast
i think like a live i like a live video
of me so
let's do it so is that coming from
a tranquil mind yeah yeah i mean i'm not
a crazy person
so okay
i i swear in my life you're okay okay
all right
okay do you feel nervous no not at all
okay if you don't feel nervous then
because because you know sometimes
people will say they don't feel nervous
i'm just like i think that like you know
don't get me wrong jason your voice is
awesome
but your face is too bro thank you
okay hold on a second figure out how to
do this
oh besides then i can show off my cool
standing desk then when you get the
camera going
um let me just figure out sorry i just i
just got a standing desk and i love it
um okay all right
anyway so we can just keep talking cool
we're good
we're live yep so cool
so but so you said that developing
confidence is about being good at
something right
right okay so
did you feel like you were good at
something when you told your parents
that you wanted to do this
yeah i felt like i was i knew something
that they didn't know
and i felt like um i was more
knowledgeable
about about youtube and what goes about
it than they do
so i just felt like i
i felt extremely confident about what i
wanted to do and
so yeah it's it's been now it's a three
year anniversary of me quitting
the bank and it was a big decision it's
kind of funny um
i didn't i didn't know
you got to put in the two-week thing and
i guess you don't technically have to
but um i guess you don't technically
have to but i was kind enough to do that
and it just so happened to end up on
groundhog day which is so funny
because it's like it's so like symbolic
groundhog day you wake up do the same
thing over and over again
hating your life um hopefully a lot of
you people saw that movie
um but um
yeah so it's just kind of symbolic in
many ways that's an easy day to remember
like oh my gosh groundhog day
the day that i don't have to go to the
bank yeah that's actually
you know quite the karmic coincidence
what it's funny like i didn't know what
i was doing at the bank
whatsoever like at all and um
so you know how like most jobs they have
performance reviews and they're like
um they'll be like how what did you
oh sorry phone's ringing you
you'll do like performance reviews where
um
like whether it's like a six month
review out of the year review
most people would talk about all the
things that they accomplished
and all the amazing things they did
during that year like almost
most people do when they do a job like
here's what i did i helped on this
report i did
this task and and they'd be like you
know a page long
every time i had a performance review i
wrote
one sentence and all i said was
i just want to get better and i left at
that
my boss called me and called me in the
office the first time i did that
i did it like five times i just want to
get better
and the first time she went what's going
on here like most people give like all
the things that i did i'm like
i don't even know like i i really don't
know much
about banking i'm i'm just trying to get
better every day
i really don't know what i'm doing like
i'll be honest like i really don't know
what i'm doing
i just know what i need to do
so yeah and then what did she say
i just she was like okay whatever
whatever yeah so
yeah i get the feeling jason that you
weren't really living your life back
then
no i wasn't and it feels to me like
you're living your life now
i've wanted to be a youtuber since i was
16. so
this is this is my dream job well
actually my yes i guess in my dream job
my other job was i want that i wanted to
be
is i wanted to be a high school guidance
counselor um because i had a
such an awesome high school guidance
counselor super cool
and um and i was like this is such a
cool job all you do is call in students
every day and go like talk and he would
invite me like
what do you want to talk about like
what's going on like i think that's such
a cool job just like
just get inside the heads of uh of how
the kids are doing
in in high school so that was my other
dream job that i want to do because i
think just
it's just interesting just to you know
give that support to
to people who might be not feeling too
great
sounds like that it's kind of
interesting because i'm
noticing some
irregularities in your story what do you
mean
so the first is that like you kind of
said that you didn't really like you
weren't like a real person until 23.
you know that's sort of the impression
that i got is that like you were just
listening to your parents and like kind
of going to autopilot and stuff like
that
but and then you kind of go back and you
say actually like
you wanted to be a youtuber since you
were 16. oh i did but i didn't i didn't
seriously like i was like oh it's not
going to happen like no one's going to
watch me or anything so yeah but
so it's it's a really important
distinction right so i i think actually
like
jason you've been a person all along you
just didn't have the confidence to know
it
maybe yeah that was probably it maybe
that was the situation there right
because it's like you knew what you
wanted you just didn't have faith in
yourself that like
you your opinions were good ones because
you were
yeah yeah well i mean i didn't really
get in i didn't get in
that's why everyone was kind of my
friend in high school
i i didn't have any i didn't get in any
arguments whatsoever because i was not
knowledgeable enough to
uh think of any counterpoints like oh
that's like that's a good point i don't
know i just kind of agreed with everyone
if you agree with that
with everyone it's pretty easy to get
along yeah
you're kind of a chameleon yeah i just
kind of blended in
it's kind of it's kind of goofy because
i kind of just um blended in with
everyone else i'd be like no matter what
friend group i was with i was like oh i
guess i have to act this way now i gotta
act this way now
so i just kind of changed my personality
based on who i was with which is
obviously
not the best thing to do but um who are
you
um i i don't i don't know who i am i
don't know who i am
uh i'm just uh i'm just some guy trying
to get through life like everyone else
does that question make you
uncomfortable no
no what if i said what if i said i
didn't
believe you that you don't know who you
are
i'd be like you're okay
like i don't care so so so it's it's
interesting because
jason here's what i would say i think
you know who you are i just don't think
you know how to explain it
i i don't know how to explain either i
don't know i really don't know
you really don't know who you are oh my
gosh should i just turn off my monitor
you may have turned off your monitor but
we can see you fine
okay i think i'm back i don't know what
just happened there i'm back
uh yeah so i always say something about
i don't know who i am yeah do you do you
really not feel like you know who you
are
uh no i know i like i i don't even know
how to
what's the definition of that i don't
even know how to explain that
like what if i if i say who are you
like what would you say i'm me
okay well i'm me too so what's the
problem there's no problem
right so so here's here's what my
problem is that when you say you don't
know who you are i call [ __ ]
okay that makes sense okay well i mean
but i just get
i i mean i i don't and now it's gets
tricky because we know you're a
chameleon
so are you just playing along because
that's what i want to hear like do you
like because i i get the sense that
you're
i mean we talked about how you're
confident in yourself like you know who
you are
well i mean what i don't know what the
correct answer here is like do i just
say i'm a youtuber i make youtube videos
i mean
i'm a i'm a i'm a guy that just wants
i'm the curious person that just wants
to learn about the world
like i don't know there's just so many
different answers for that kind of
question
yeah good so now we get back to buddhism
yes
so because you're saying all of those
things are not
don't capture the essence of who i am
that's actually what i'm hearing
yeah i think so it's sort of like if i
look at a house
from one side that's not the whole house
and then if i walk around to the side of
the house that's not the whole house
either
and then if i walk around to the back
that's not the whole house
and so could you be described as a
youtuber sure
could you be described as i think a
little bit closer to the truth
of who you are is that you're just a
curious guy who likes to teach people
things
yeah that's what i love the most because
like i really wanted to be a teacher i
really wanted
to teach people things now i really can
so whenever i get something educational
i get so excited because i don't want to
like bore people with educational stuff
but like if i find something that's
genuinely
interesting i'm like ass let's go i got
something good
like because there's a lot of stuff that
people um you know
a lot of schools won't teach for
whatever reason or it's not like
controversial stuff just like they can't
cover
everything so they're not gonna talk
about here's a cool video
um here's a cool video of
a whale getting uh tracked by
the government or something i don't know
[Music]
yeah yeah so yeah i
so i i i don't know exactly where this
conversation is going but i'm going to
teach you a little bit we're going to
dig into buddhism a little bit is that
okay
sure check out my city i'm going from a
standing desk to a sitting desk watch
gg so smooth
welcome um
so the interesting thing is that what i
and and now i'm gonna sort of make some
assumptions about buddhism but i'm not
as well versed in it i think at the end
of the day buddhism and
hinduism share a lot there are some
arguments that they have
um which i think are personally i feel
like are not really important
but um the
so one interesting thing if we kind of
go back to ego and the self
is that the way to know who you really
are
is through this phrase which means not
this
not this okay so if you can
use anything to describe who you are
that is not who you are
okay so i'm not a youtuber i'm not
a curious person the true essence of
what you are is not a youtuber because
you were you before you were a youtuber
right
right right yeah i mean i was i had a
sense of self before
i became a youtuber but i think it
really grew my sense of self grew with
youtube because i got more confident
and once i got more confident in myself
then yeah it's beautiful like
i just had it's just so frustrating
because if i if i if i was a person i am
today
and um it's just i compare myself to my
sister my sister was always very
confident
from a very young age and
that i was thinking about this too i
thought about this too i was like oh my
gosh she set the bar so
high like you know she got straight a's
and everything got double majored in
spanish and engineering super smart
um so it's just like the bar was set
so high it's like how do i compete with
that and
i don't know i just i just i just i
forgot where i was going with this
what was it like growing up with adhd
with a sister who was
effortlessly successful it's um
i guess it was well we didn't really
have that close
of a relationship because i just for
some reason i was i just didn't really
talk to her that much because i guess
when we we were we were on friendly
terms and everything but
i just didn't really have a very strong
relationship with my sister and now
it's very strong now that i've i've
developed a sense of self my sister has
addressed this too she's like i'm very
proud of you jason like you've
like you've grown into a much a very
beautiful person because
uh she knows who i used to be i used to
have i used to be extremely reliant
on the opinions of others i could never
make my own decisions
and um now i can how did that happen
uh well i like i said i think it's just
from
from youtube and everything like i said
youtube has saved my life thank you so
much let's get somewhat interesting
right because we started this
conversation with oh my god what is
social media doing to me
and here we hear about the life-changing
positive aspects of youtube
not a story we hear every day no no
it's it's just so goofy um
it's because i mean yeah it does have
its positives in its negatives for sure
and
you you said your sister is proud of you
now
and you guys yeah i mean she was always
proud of me she was always
a loving sister but like she could tell
that i changed
and that's a good thing and my mom
mentioned that too she's like you've
changed jason that's a good thing
so how does it feel to hear your family
say that
it's really nice because it's like i get
to form my own opinions now i get to be
part of the conversation because i used
to
you know i like family dinners and stuff
i just sit there and eat
i had to sit there and eat um i wouldn't
i wouldn't plug anything into the
conversation i wouldn't feel a need to
um especially like you know big like
family dinners like you know christmas
and thanksgiving and stuff i would never
input anything because i wouldn't feel
confident enough to
give my own opinion and now i can it's
wonderful
can i think for a second yeah go for it
i get a lot of authenticity from you
jason
what do you mean a lot of authenticity
you're just you're authentic
uh yeah i guess i i have nothing i have
nothing to fake
this is this is me this is who i am i've
besides this seems really exhausting to
um fake a personality
oh yes like i'd just be so mentally
exhausted
but i mean you did that for years and
years and years no
no i i guess i don't even feel like i
even had a personality i don't even feel
like i had a sense of self so i
had nothing to fake i just kind of like
okay here where am i supposed to be i
guess i'm here
where am i supposed to be now mom oh i
guess i'm over here like gosh i probably
had my mom call the doctor for me up
until i was like 20.
you know make appointments for me and
stuff sure so
i i just didn't i didn't even think
about these things and now i do
everything
by myself and it's nice but it's like
i'm learning for like the first time
ever like so many things
yeah so i i find myself being a little
bit um
sort of at a crossroads of sorts or one
of these
weird boston intersections that has like
five roads
in one intersection um so i could ask
i'm not sure exactly where to take this
conversation is there a particular
i can lay out a couple of options that i
think would be interesting
um well i was i was i was talking to
someone else about this
yesterday uh-huh like kind of random but
but since you're a doctor i was
wondering what your input input would be
do you think you'll see uh lower rates
of alzheimer's
because of so many people are gaming now
like as we get older of alzheimer's
alzheimer's yes because as we get older
um
you will we're still gonna be playing
video games and stuff
like we're you know our generation
as they get older when we're gonna be
like 70 we're still going to be gaming
we're not going to stop gaming and i
think we'll
do you think we'll see a lower rate of
alzheimer's as a result
it's a damn good question and i think we
will
okay i think i think we will because
think about the
there's so much brain power being used
when you're simply playing a video game
a first person shooter or anything and
um
one of the things you want to do to
prevent alzheimer's is
alzheimer's is to exercise your brain
and that's why
like my dad he's uh today's his birthday
um
i'm gonna see him today don't worry um
and today's his birthday what he likes
to do to prevent
uh getting alzheimer's dementia whatever
he plays
uh he he doesn't play video games he he
makes videos he makes his own youtube
videos
and to you know just to exercise his
mind but he also
practices spanish a lot every day he
practices spanish every day
he he gives free legal advice to poor
people um
so he he does exercise his mind because
he's so
he takes precautions to avoid getting
alzheimer's and i was thinking about
them like
well when our generation gets older are
we are going to see
lower rates of alzheimer's as a result
and i think the answer is yes
so i think that that's a
very hopeful perspective
i think it it also could be true
so here's i there are a bunch of
variables i'm thinking about so the
first thing is that what's protective
against dementia
so the first thing is that not all
dementia is alzheimer's
and you know so alzheimer's is a
particular pathophysiologic
process in the brain that actually has
to do with the inability to clear
waste products from our neurons
um if pathophysiology serves me
correctly because i you know it's been
years now since i've
i've really dug into the pathophysiology
of alzheimer's
but so so some fortunate or unfortunate
there are some processes that happen in
our brain which have
arguably less to do with our mind and
keeping our mind engaged
some things there are some brain
processes that our mind has a greater
influence over
others that it has less of an influence
over so if we think about something like
anxiety or depression i believe that our
mind
has a strong potential impact
on the brain in anxiety
so we can do things with our mind that
will change the function of our brain
in someone who's anxious when it comes
to something like a glioblastoma
multiformi which is like a particular
kind of brain cancer i think that our
mind has
less of an impact on altering our brain
so anxiety so i say you don't think you
don't eat
do you feel like um there's not much
you almost feel like it's like it's a
given it's a given like you will get
dementia
or do you think there's really not much
we can do
like i don't think either of those
statements are true
okay so there's a lot we can do
and it isn't a given but i don't know
that video games for the answer so let
me just
so the first time i'm not saying that's
the answer they could they could be a
part of the answer we'll get to that in
a second
so well the first thing to kind of lay
out is to understand that our mind has
different like the impact of our mind on
our brain
it changes depending on what process
you're talking about so one end of the
spectrum is like cancer where like i
don't know if you can think your way out
of cancer
you can certainly as bizarre it sounds
you can train your mind to think your
way out of anxiety
um and then in the middle is something
like alzheimer's so we know that and
this is the interesting thing about
alzheimer's if
and i'm rusty here so you got to take
this with a grain of salt if i remember
correctly
what's protective against alzheimer's is
actually novel experiences
so what does that mean so that means
like if i've been playing mario kart
since the age of five and i continue to
play
mario kart into until the age of 80 i
don't think that's going to be very
protective against alzheimer's
so new experiences new games
that's different story so like this is
where we're like you know people
think that something like a crossword
like doing a crossword every day is
protective against dementia
it's it and and really the data seems to
suggest that like doing
new stuff so like your dad you know
engaging new clients that can't pay him
and stuff like that
he's like learning to make youtube
videos that [ __ ] is protective against
alzheimer's
but that's because when he was like five
he wasn't playing it so i i think the
issue is that you know if you spend your
your well like i think if you play the
league of legends for 10 hours a day now
and you continue doing that for 60 years
i think you're more likely to get
alzheimer's that makes sense because
it's when you're making new experiences
you're you're making new
new connections absolutely so that's
excellent
so so the neuroplasticity component has
to do with
with uh novel experiences
yeah as i say when you um when you learn
how to
i think i read something if you whenever
you learn how to uh
play an instrument you gain like three
percent brain matter mass or something
like something ridiculous
i don't know i i saw some sort of quote
or something so so this is also where
things get a little bit
confusing because actually trimming down
connections in your brain is how a lot
of
learning happens so the highest density
of connections
and neurons actually happens at birth or
even before birth
and then like within the first couple of
months or years
like we get down to 10 of what we
started with
and the way that i kind of think about
it is like imagine that i made a block
out of a city out of like a block of
wood like i made like a diagram
like you know really like the city
emerges
the order emerges out of the reduction
of mass
not the increase of mass and that's also
sort of how our brain works
so like like a a lot of axonal trimming
and things like that is actually
associated with learning
so so
yeah you're like because if you think
about like you know if i if i take a
blank piece of paper
and i cut it into like an image
the the resolution in the world happens
from losing stuff not gaining stuff
which is something that a lot of people
don't like they think that the brain
like oh i'm like increasing my number of
neurons
whereas like your brain rewires and it
strengthens connections it tunes
like pruning is actually a big part of
the learning process
interesting i don't know that the last
thing about
alzheimer's though this we do have very
good data about is that
heart health is brain health so a lot of
the dementing processes that happen
happen because the blood vessels in our
brain get like clogged
and so as the blood vessels in your
brain get clogged like you just can't
support the health of your neurons
you can't clear waste products and as
you can't clear waste products that
[ __ ] builds up in your brain and your
neurons start to die
so you're basically pooping in your own
head
no you're not pooping in your own head
um you're unable to poop
out of your own head it's actually
subtle but important to my head
your head is constipated yes
far better yeah right because it's the
evacuation of the waste materials which
we get bad at
in when you impact vascular health so
the problem with playing games is that
if it comes with a
a negative impact to your cardiovascular
health like ie your weight or your diet
or things like that
that's going to be more alzheimer's
prone would be my judgment
so the simple matter is that i i think
jason your theoretical instinct is
correct
that if you continue to play games that
are like new and interesting and like
you know you give some like boomer game
or vr
yeah go ahead yeah i would say i hope
there's not someone out there who's
still playing the same game for 50 years
i mean so
so i'm one of these [ __ ] noobs that
loves that though
like you know because i've been playing
dota since like
god i don't even know how long yeah and
and
i mean that's what i think is amazing
you know it's like these games like
chess like you can play chess your
entire life
um and and i think that yeah go ahead i
would say i love chess i love
i love playing chess i'm not very good
at it but i love it i like that i like
the
it's almost like um it's like a just a
very simple
war game that's all it is battle game
yeah chess is great chess is great i
love chess
um yeah so i was gonna say i'm not
really sure i mean if you've got
questions i'm happy to answer them
i find myself being immensely curious
about one detail of your personal life
that you may not want to talk about
um we can talk about buddhism or um
so i'm kind of curious what's your
what's your relationship status
i'm single how do you feel about that
um i'm at a time in my life where
why i was just in a two-year
relationship and that ended in
october and um it's because i i don't
know i just
well i don't want to get into details
why it didn't work out but um
i don't feel like i'm a complete person
yet so
i don't feel like ready for a
relationship i don't feel like i'm
i'm genuinely not ready for a
relationship i think i have a lot of
self-discovery i have to go through
i'm not um the best person i want to be
and i feel like i have a long way to go
to be
the best person that i can be so that's
why
i'm single and i don't know when that's
gonna change
um i don't know we'll see
so i'd like to challenge that for just a
second
okay so this is going to be a far
shorter conversation than i thought it
was going to be
but um first of all i appreciate you
offering the answer
because it is a personal question but
the one thing i'd encourage you to keep
in mind jason
is that you've been a youtuber for far
longer
than you give yourself credit for
so yeah you've been a person so even
amidst the chameleon-ness i think you
were always in there
and the reason i asked you about the
relationship i have no [ __ ] idea
how or why i thought this but like
i encourage you to to try to remember
that and to acknowledge that in the same
way
that you were always you before you had
the confidence to be you
you may be more ready for a relationship
than you give yourself credit for
maybe but my biggest fear is that i
don't want to hurt someone
i'm very afraid of that and i know
that's that's just part of that's part
of the game
people get hurt and people i'm very
afraid of hurting someone
and be like you know um all of a sudden
like
i i don't feel it anymore i'm not i'm
not i'm not in
i'm not invested in this anymore and
that's my fear i don't i hate i don't
want to hurt anyone
and that's my biggest fear i really
don't want to hurt anyone
i don't like hurting anyone period uh i
don't like
killing things i don't like hurting
things spiders i
i hate it i don't like hurting anyone
period
anyone or anything and i guess that's
part of the game
but that's the reason why i'm single
because i'm afraid to hurt i'm going to
hurt someone
but at the same time i maybe just got to
toughen up i'm like okay
it's part of the game people are gonna
get hurt uh
it's it's it's just part of you don't do
that well
i'm not trying to hurt someone but i'm
saying like no i think that's
that's you becoming callous and that's
you becoming something that you're not
yeah i don't know
so so jason this is where like there's a
middle road right like you can
um you want to get into this
no no go for it i want to hear it no no
no
okay yeah okay i i am
i'm i'm open to everything like i said
i'm i'm i'm not
gonna be offended by anything yeah
i know you're not going to be offended i
just may not be pleasant
go for it be brutal i'm not sure i'm not
i'm not gonna i'm i'm
not gonna hurt you i just you know i'm
not gonna be brutal it's just
it can be hard to face these things so
so like
let's think a little bit about that okay
so like it's great that we have this
backdrop of buddhism so like i want you
to recognize
that your desire to not hurt someone
can sort of be a good thing like so in
in sanskrit there's this phrase a word
ahimsa which means non-violence
and that non-violence is like the
highest ideal
that like all other like moral values
should like
be subject to non-violence yeah so i i
think that you're very
naturally like you a himsa is very
important to you
so that's wonderful and at the same time
you have to be careful because there's a
difference between fear of hurting
someone
and ahimsa there's a difference between
ideal and an emotion
like like so so like let me just give
you an example so i'm a doctor right so
like sometimes
as a doctor like i think to myself so we
we
take this oath when we graduate and it
says
you know like one of our one of our
ethical principles is non-malfeasance
which is to do no harm now the problem
is like i could prescribe a medication
and they could have an allergic reaction
and they could die which is like the
very opposite reason why i'm there
yeah and so then the question becomes
okay so like i'm really here to help
people like
i want to save lives not end them but
every time
you know if i'm a surgeon every time i
go into the operating room there's a
chance that the patient
could die and so that fear of
not wanting a patient to die like cannot
be my guiding principle you're the worst
surgeon in the world
get out of here because i wouldn't be a
surgeon
yeah yeah it makes sense i know where
you're getting it
and and so i think you've got to be
really really careful and
and so i'm going to be kind of like if
anything i'm going to be judgmental
because i'm making a lot of assumptions
about your experience
those aren't really based in reality
because i haven't asked you any [ __ ]
questions
but but i i think that you've got to be
really careful about letting that fear
control
your actions right because i think
caring is a wonderful thing for a
relationship
but fear of hurting someone and like
depriving yourself of the opportunity of
giving them
in yourself everything else
is like you're like the surgeon that'll
never enter the operating room
right no i mean i i thought about this
because at the same time i've only
i've been in like maybe like i've only
been in two relationships in my life and
only one of them was
was serious so um at the same time it's
like maybe it's just one of those
situations where i have to
just try with someone else like you
never know
yeah so i i would encourage you to like
notice that fear right so like i've
asked you to notice a couple things
within yourself like
and probably that that fear comes from
sort of like a traumatic experience
yeah i mean you know breakups are scary
no one wants to do that
yeah and well i mean it may even come
from before the breakup
no definitely not
well because it's like as is the first
time i truly fell in love with someone
so
that's why what was that like
it was wonderful that was really nice
and i know you don't want to talk about
it but i can see you're getting
emotional
yeah what are you feeling right now
um it's just sad
you know the whole thing but yeah
i'm just not gonna say anything for a
second you don't have to speak
we're just gonna sit with it
let me know if you need a dick joke yeah
i'm good
i'm good do you feel well supported
oh yeah for sure yeah definitely
i mean yeah my family's got my back
everyone's got my back so
trying to figure out what to say no
you're good you're good
life is beautiful so these are these are
good things to go through these are good
things to talk about
i like talking about everything and
everything i'm not i'm not scared to
talk about things so
can we acknowledge that not everything
is beautiful
well i think um yeah you're right not
everything is beautiful
you see um yeah
so here's the next step so buddhism
would say
it's important to acknowledge that not
everything is beautiful right because
what are the life is suffering
yeah life is suffering um yeah i can
bring it up again
uh i can give you the three because i i
just think it's so interesting because
it just
it really resonates with me it really
stuck with me and i just
um i just felt it was so interesting
because it's like if you want something
in life
it's gonna be painful and it whatever it
is whatever
because i mean you're a doctor you
probably probably want to school for
like 10 years right
so um yeah it's gonna be it's gonna be
a painful long process so um
all life is suffering the cause of all
suffering is desire
to remove the to remove the suffering
you have to remove the desire
yeah so here's what i'd say to you
your desire to not hurt someone
can't be suffering it's it's
it's not it's going to keep you from
living yeah
and and it's it's good that you don't
want to you know like ahimsa i think is
good but like
be careful about the emotions um
i had a couple of other thoughts in
there but
oh yeah so so it's it not everything in
life is beautiful
and then here's the other thing that
people don't really get is that
it's okay for things to not be beautiful
there's no problem with things not being
beautiful
right and if i if i were to kind of like
because i think this is the the
mentality that a lot of people have
right
i'm just going to pick one thing from
your background which is like when you
were growing up i can imagine that it
was
hard being a kid with adhd and sometimes
it's even hard to acknowledge how hard
it is because your parents are so
supportive
um and then you know growing up with
your sister the way that she is
but i think that's a prime example of
like she's
studious and intelligent and i have adhd
and look at where y'all i mean it's not
i hope she's doing well but like
i think adhd it's interesting i didn't
know you had adhd but
now that i think about your content
makes perfect [ __ ] sense
you know i was i was talking to um to
someone about this i
truly think my adhd gave me an advantage
so basically
um so here's the problem this is the
entire reason why i started
my youtube channel in the first place um
i looked on youtube
and it went there is no videos catered
to adhd people
and i want i want to change that and i
because i realized i couldn't pay
attention more than like
30 seconds on a video i was like i want
to click off i want to do something else
i want to so basically that's why all
the clips on my videos
are about 30 seconds or less and so i
have this
basically when i'm editing my videos
i'll just be i'll like watch it
and then as soon as i lose interest i'll
stop it i'm like i'm done
like that's where i'm gonna cut the clip
and then we're gonna put in the video i
think that's why a lot of people find it
so so it's brilliant so i know because
it's so it's so addicting because like
like as soon as like
i start to peek at one video another one
comes up it's like that's that's the
whole purpose and it's it's literally
built for adhd people like me because
i can see it firsthand i go as soon as i
lose interest as soon as i find it
not interesting the video will end there
and a lot of people get frustrated with
that they go hey the video is only
you know you didn't show the full video
like like it kept going i'm like yeah i
know but i lost interest
[Laughter]
so no it's like a superpower
it really is and i think this is where
we we talk a lot about
um so in eastern medicine
one of the key things is that like in
the west we sort of think of like minds
as all one way
right like we don't like so in we know
that for example a different color like
hair color right we know there's like
normal variants of hair color within the
human population
but when we think about mental
characteristics we don't think about
normal variants we sort of say that the
mind
is one way and what happens is we
diagnose some people as being
ill because their mind their
mind's attention span is like short so
it's not
adapted to sitting in a classroom for
eight hours a day
but it is very very adapted to sifting
through tons of [ __ ] on the internet
and finding the choicest pieces and then
linking them together
yeah exactly i mean i tried to hire
people to do my job
and to help me out and stuff not to do
my job but you know help me out and
help find videos it didn't work people
just couldn't find what i wanted
and so i was like okay this is this is
frustrating because like i can't put my
brain in someone else's head so yep um
and i'm sure other people exactly so and
like i tried like
explaining like hey like this is cool
but like it's not good
for daily dose of internet um so i i
take great pride in making sure
i i show the best clips because i
i want to put a really good product out
there for everyone to enjoy
yeah that's cool and so it's like if
it's just like a regular like standard
cat video like
being cute like i'm not going to show
that i'm not going to show that it has
to be
something funny or unique about that cat
video like
i just don't show me a regular cat video
that's not going to fly
that's cool um
yeah any questions for me no
no i mean how long do your um
[Music]
uh your podcast usually go yeah
we usually like i'll ask people around
the now mark
it's about 1 30. um sometimes they go
long like they tend to run anywhere
between like one and two and a half
hours
yeah um usually around two
and it really just sort of depends on
like the lifespan of the conversation
yeah well like i said i mean um i love i
love talking
i love i've talked i if you guys want to
know about more about me but like um
i don't know i i'm i'm more of a um i'm
not really
i know we came into this conversation
wanting to talk about
you know what youtubers go through and
stuff and
i'll tell you what like one of the
things that my my stress levels
are always high almost
because of this because my job and
uh because i want best part of the
problem is that there's no job security
here
there's no job security if you don't do
good if you don't do
do well enough someone else will take
your time someone else will take your
slot
uh just like regular tv you know if a
if a show is not performing well they
will someone else will
watch a different show instead um so i
want to make sure that
i'm always going to put out the best
product i possibly can
and um yeah so it's very stressful it's
very stressful it's
um but it's it's a good stress it keeps
me busy and the problem is that
i'm so busy that time flies by so fast
it flies by so fast like i can't believe
it's already february
jason i think you're you're touched too
positive bro
um so so like i mean i i recognize that
it
okay hold on all right so there's a lot
to talk about here
um you know i can kind of start to get
into it and we can sort of discuss
but so i recognize that the stress
drives you to perform
right right but it also drives you to
suffer
yeah i haven't had a day off in along uh
since i started uh so last my last day
off was probably 2015.
yeah so when you say stress is a good
thing
you know like it it has advantages
so i i think about stress is like do you
play do you play games
yeah i love playing playing games you
know blood pages
no i've heard of it though so like like
there are blood pages and
random ass video games and the idea
behind a blood mage is like instead of
eight
it's like zeno so mages have mp mana
right magic points
yeah and so like you spend your mp to
cast spells
and then like every now and then you'll
have a game that has a blood mage and a
blood mage doesn't have mana he uses hp
to cast spells
usually a dude right so it's like you
get the spell effect but you
you pay for it right you pay for it out
of your own lifeblood
and and when i think about like content
creators and like the stress of
performing
i kind of see them as blood mages yeah
they're basically sacrificing their life
and their free time to entertain other
people and that's fine and that's great
because that's what they want to do
and it's part you know especially like
those 24-hour live streams sort of
things like you're sacrificing your
freedom
your life to other people and that's
fine
and it's normal i guess but i'm just
saying like that's
that's part of the job you know you're
sacrificing your freedom
and your livelihood and your in your
life to other people
yeah but that's not fine so is it
normal sure okay oh so just because it's
yeah just because it's normal doesn't
mean it's okay
right right so so and and this is the
wild thing right so like we see this a
lot like y'all aren't the only ones that
are blood mages like
other examples of blood mages are
investment bankers
right they're like i'm gonna just give
my youth
in my sweat and my stomach ulcers
for the sake of this contract and you
have it you haven't had a day off since
2015.
well i i [ __ ] way that that's healthy
well it is though because the way i pace
out my day is very
uh so what i've done what i decided to
do for 2021
is to force myself to travel more um
okay and to to go do things i can still
work because what i do is i can get all
my work done on the plane
so i'm gonna i'm gonna add i'm gonna
disagree
so i'm not saying that you haven't found
a sustainable way
to not take a day off in five years
i still wouldn't call that healthy just
there's a there's a sure you have it
turned into a dumpster fire of a human
being
and it sounds like you're actually doing
really well for yourself but like
the standard of health is not be like
it's not the absence of being a dumpster
fire
yeah right it sounds like you had a
really fulfilling relationship for a
couple years you have good relationships
with your
your your family you connect with people
you educate people
you enjoy things about your day maybe
you've got a dog that you play with on a
regular basis
like who knows sure i'm not saying that
you haven't learned to adapt and this is
what we see with content creators
is that they like they come up with a
system that functions
yeah but that doesn't mean that it's
healthy
i don't feel unhealthy that's the weird
thing i don't um
i feel like if i took a day off i'd be
bored
yeah so so uh so so this is where maybe
i'm the one
who needs to disagree with myself so if
all of the people that i think that
can build a healthy lifestyle without
taking a day off in five years you may
be at the top of the list
it may really be that the work is just
so uh but here's the question
anyway so but you still use the word
stress to describe it
right i mean it's a good stress because
you want to make sure
because i'm technically a performer even
though i'm not doing anything
um so you want to make sure you're at
the top of the top of your game
yeah so this is where i think that
there's like a lot to be learned and
thankfully there are systems at place
to um you know
help people stay at the top of their
game and build a
work life balance right so so this is
where i think
you really may be an outlier but like a
lot of like you know content creators
feel burnt out i don't get the sense
that you feel burnt out
no i i i like i said i i am
here so here's the reason why the reason
why is because i think i'm a little
crazy and in the aspect
thank you in the aspect that i know i'm
not good at anything
other than this so i don't want to go
back to my bank job i know i can never
do another
regular job ever again because because
of this
and since i'm so insane about not going
back there
i should work so hard to make sure that
doesn't happen
because i i worked for a fortune 500
company
i hated every second of it that was
the worst most depressing days of my
life
like i would wake up and i'd be like
i would be upset that i was still alive
i would be like why is this my life
i cannot believe this is my life i'd
wake up every day miserable
yes that is not my situation right now
jason what i think makes you an outlier
is you have
you have somehow managed to describe
gratitude and desperation with one
rolled up emotion
what you described there is both abject
desperation
and endless gratitude yeah
yeah exactly because i i don't think i
would be the person
that i am on youtube if i didn't have
that bank job first
because if you have everything handed to
you on a silver platter
you're never gonna know if you're always
what right if you're
if you're always um winning you're not
going to
i think failing is very important and
the formation of someone's personality
and the formation of someone's morals
and how they go about their
their life yeah i think that that's also
i've i sort of found the same thing so
when i went when i started medical
school i had failed a lot
yeah and i found that it really made med
school like really easy
but it's like well because so so i was
with a group of kids who were
presumably sort of like your sister
right so they were like valedictorian of
their high school
top of their class in college like the
average gp college gpa for like pre-meds
is like 3.8
or 3.7 or something right so like
maybe a b here or there but like all a's
highly motivated smart kids top of their
class disciplined
study super hard and then there was me i
kind of scraped in
and you look working you had a question
no so you're probably so it doesn't
really matter because you're you're on
the same level now as everyone else
like same level yeah you you might have
started off in a different place
sure sure that's one way to think about
it but but i actually think my level was
way better than their level
because because i had known what it was
like to fail to like really fail
so one of my friends um was at harvard
law school and i asked him like
you know how's your i was excited for
him so his first semester ended and and
we were kind of catching up and i was
like
you know how is it and he's like it's
awful i was like
what do you mean it's awful like it you
know is it everyone's super depressed
and i was like what do you mean
everyone's super depressed i thought
like everyone wanted to go there
and then he said something he's super
wise guy
like not like not a wise guy but he's
like actually like wisdom
he has a wisdom and he was like one of
the worst things you can do
to a child or a person is like to take a
group of people who have always been the
best
and suddenly make them average oh yeah
that's true and and
that's what med school is sort of like
and then like suddenly kit like these
kids because they felt like kids to me i
mean i was four years older than them so
you know not really it's like 27 28 and
they were like 22 23.
um and they would get like a b
and it would be like devastating
devastating yeah or
or you know they'd get some feedback and
a doctor would be like hey like you
really
need to do a better job with you know
your auscultation and listening to heart
sounds because this is like
because it's not just book knowledge
it's like you know
yeah yeah and i'm not really sorry i was
sorry i'm kind of getting random here
but like
for people for doctors that that you
know graduated
30 years ago um do they have to take
mandatory courses to catch up on
all the new like medical nausea comes
out yes
they do okay so it's like mandatory like
yes it's mandatory
so there's a certain amount of
continuing medical education that you
have to do
to maintain your license i believe so
technically you're always in medical
school if you're a doctor
yes you're damn right there's there was
one interesting statistic that 50
of what you know 50
of what you learned during medical
school will be replaced by the end of
medical school
well i don't think the statistic is
quite that high
because you know like you learn things
like where the heart is in the body and
that [ __ ] ain't gonna change
you know um there is some weird
cardiac inversus or something where
people have a heart on the right side of
their body but generally speaking like
you know the location of the heart isn't
gonna change
yeah um but but you know there's there
are lots of advances and things like
that
anyway kind of going back to um
i don't know why i was telling the story
but i'll finish it now but i i think
you know oh you were talking about how
you wouldn't be who you are today unless
you worked at the bank and so i kind of
felt the same way
that in in med school it was sort of
easy because like people would kind of
get yelled at by
or not even get yelled at they would
just be told publicly that they made a
mistake
and like they they don't even know what
failure looks like so it feels like
failure to them like
this is nothing yeah i don't think
people really truly understand
how important it is to fail like if you
if
you know if you're just given everything
you're not going to learn anything you
have to learn in order to appreciate in
order to
appreciate what you have and that's why
a lot of people
um that's why that's why i love you know
rag to riches stories you know
a poor guy it went up and became a
millionaire in the nba like or something
like that i just love stories like that
because
they are and they always give back to
the community in some sort because like
i know where i came from my community
was very rough it was whatever and then
they give back and it's beautiful
because they understand the pain
you know there's not it's beautiful yeah
i mean giving back is why we're here on
twitch today
so i was like man there were a bunch of
noobs look at all these [ __ ] noobs
that are just like me
yeah and they sailing i still remember
you know going to a christmas party in
my hometown where i met people that i
had gone to call like i mean so we were
in high school together and we all went
to college
we were all pre-med and so the funny
thing was they were like
done with medical school and they were
going off to be like surgeons and
ophthalmologists and stuff like that
and um i went to this christmas party
and then
you know we were all catching up because
we hadn't seen each other in years and i
was like oh what are you doing they're
like yeah i'm gonna go be like a
ent surgeon i was like cool and they're
like what are you up to and like i was
like i'm applying to medical school
yeah we're like the same age right yeah
and and so it's it can feel bad but it's
like it makes you who you are
right right um and and i i think that
like this kind of goes back to
this idea of beautiful not beautiful
comparing ego
you know the only time you're going to
feel insufficient
is when you hold up a standard that
isn't yourself
well it's funny how my standards have
changed like back when
back when i was a very small youtube
channel i was like oh my gosh
a million views a video yes awesome it's
like i'm not saying it's like it's cocky
but it's like your
your idea of success
is like any business or
you always want to see improvement in
any sort of business or whatever and if
you don't you're going oh my gosh
what's going on what's happening like
study for businesses is good
but ultimately what they want to do is
they want to grow and i think the same
as things with youtubers like want to
constantly be growing they want to
constantly be better
because if they're not they go what am i
doing wrong
yeah so that's where jason to be honest
i mean so like as an organization we
support content creators through this
kind of stuff
so it's a lot of work that i i mean in
my in my private practice i work with a
lot of
um you know my clinic i work with a lot
of like people who are like obsessed
with being the best
yeah and we sort of teach them you know
how to recalibrate a little bit
how to like let go some of that stress
so i think a good example is like the
nuance between ahimsa
in the fear of not wanting to hurt
someone right and how
both of those things may sound the same
but one is actually going to like
keep you from living life and one is
going to like let you
live life with like a strong guiding
compass that actually gives you strength
right you know and so like to enter
every relationship so one is gonna keep
you from a relationship
and the other is gonna allow you to
enter into a relationship with this idea
that like
i'm gonna do my best not to hurt this
person
well i mean not like not hurt them and
physically hurt them
but like you know hurt their feelings
you know i know yeah
i just want to clarify youtube drama
i would be really surprised on maybe
this is just my naivete but i'm pretty
sure
everyone knows we're not talking about
physical abuse or even
being toxic just like you know sometimes
things don't work out and people are sad
yeah i'm pretty sure that's what we're
all talking about i just want to make
sure
we're good okay sorry if i feel like a
little uncomfortable because i
am but that's just because i'm i'm like
that with most new people
what's like i mean yeah that's i think
you should feel uncomfortable
well i don't know like because i'm like
i know how i'm acting right now
i feel like i'm not um completely
relaxed
what's wrong with that um
i don't know is i because i because i
want to i want to show
kind of show the real me but it's i
almost feel like it's not the real me
because it's like it's like nervous it's
like nervous me sure so that's
we love nervous you all right thank you
we love relaxing you too
you've never really seen it though we've
never seen relaxed you
not really okay i don't think what we
love like
well i know when i was in that zoom call
with like a bunch of other youtubers i
was i was kind of relaxed there but
but i don't know why it was maybe
because there's so many people i i
didn't feel like i need to um
like i kind of just like could just like
say my thing and then back up in the
crowd so jason we've we kind of touched
on this a couple times remember so
buddhism says
not all things are beautiful but that
beauty is not worth
more than ugly yeah
that's the other piece of the equation
so this is where like
i'll take you however you are if you're
nervous
that's fine if you don't want to be on
camera that's fine
no no that's not no it's not the camera
it's just no i i know i'm just using it
as an example of like you're allowed to
be
whatever you are you're allowed to be
fearful you're allowed to be anxious
you're allowed to be happy you're
allowed to be positive you're allowed to
lie we had this dude come on stream
couple weeks ago
[ __ ] just lied about everything oh
yeah i don't know
and and that's fine too right like like
it's like it's okay to like be exactly
where you are
you know i used to be a crazy liar when
i was growing up i
used to lie all the time i lied all the
time
and then i think around college is when
i stopped
because i went lying is getting me in
more trouble and causing more stress in
my life than i need
i'm like if i just tell the truth i
usually get in less trouble
also it's just a burden off my chest i
just the the stress of constantly
holding on to that
that lie for the rest of my life was
just like just get this off my chest so
i missed crazy
how that changed because i used to be
such a liar i used to lie about
everything
you know i'm like if i lie i'll be like
i'll feel horrible about it and then
i'll be like okay
i'm sorry that wasn't true i'll like
i'll bring it up yeah so
people like so yogis and i don't know if
really buddhism says this but they say
that a lot of your success
probably comes from the fact that you
don't lie
so that means so this is also where this
is kind of interesting so there's
another ahimsan there's another
phrase satya which means truthfulness
the interesting thing is that a lot of
people are like oh i'm into radical
honesty which means i'm going to be an
[ __ ] and tell people what i think
about
how ugly they are and so the interesting
thing is that that
in in sort of this eastern system of
morality
satya is actually like secondary to
ahimsa
so if truth hurts people like
that's you shouldn't say it yeah exactly
um but yeah you know jason i think
there's a lot to your journey that
i think is really maps on to like
spiritual growth and success
sort of this model of like you know
adopting these principles like
non-violence truthfulness
understanding who you are letting
yourself become who you are
um yeah you know and you kind of make
these claims like you didn't really have
a personality in high school and i know
you
felt that way but i think you were there
just under the surface
you were always there right yeah that's
true
and even now when it comes to stress and
the impacts of social media and stuff
like that i think
going back to kind of science and kind
of tying things up where we started
so you know it's been my experience that
there aren't a whole bunch of studies
but we do have a ton
of useful clinical data so we know like
how to help people develop
healthy social media hygiene we know how
to help people deal with stress
and burnout and things like that um so
we have
like the reason that we exist as an
organization is because like we're
trying to help people with these issues
that
you know if you go to a therapist and
you ask them like i don't know what to
do about my tic toc usage like
hopefully they'll do a good job but a
lot of them don't right
because it's so brand new also exactly
right
so so this is where things like imposter
syndrome
burnout dealing with stress being on
this like
everlasting treadmill of success right
like you guys
you guys win battles after battles after
battles but
you never win the war like that's what
it's like to be a content creator
is to have victory after victory after
victory and like never be able to stop
fighting
yeah i guess i feel like i'm just kind
of competing against myself though
i got because i i like look back at
videos that i made
five months ago and i cringe at things i
go come on did i really do that
that's part of the reason that i think
you're healthier jason than a lot of
content creators or at least in this
aspect
is that you know the more so it's it's
easier to compare your
it's less damn it's less suffering for
your ego
when you compare to your former self as
opposed to when you compare to other
content creators
and this is where if you don't stream on
twitch right no
no okay so this is where we actually
recently
um have been working with twitch to
actually support their content creators
through stuff like this and the program
seems to be going really well
um but it you know so i i don't think
that that's available to you but that's
something we're going to have to think
about
obviously i mean
anyway let me let me just think about
that i feel kind of bad now
about what about not being able to
support you in a more substantial way
oh i'm fine no i'm good i'm good you're
good
i know you're good but i'm still allowed
to feel bad even if you're okay right
okay i don't know what what's the feel
about feel bad about
i mean yeah it's uh like i said it's
just it's just the grind baby
it's the grind yeah what you gotta do
and i think
it all stems from the ptsd of literally
not being good at anything in my life
so it's it's just it's like um
it's kind of like you have someone who
is raised in extreme poverty
their entire life and all of a sudden
you give them all the food in the world
they're going to finish the plate and
they're going to constantly save food
constantly safe food because they don't
know they're so inbred with the idea
that they don't know when their next
meal is going to arrive
i'm kind of like the same way yes but
jason jason it comes down to suffering
man
yeah right because here here is someone
who has all the food in the world
and they still suffer right
so i understand that you know whipping
yourself
towards success because of the
desperation like i said some weird
you know real cocktail of like coffee
and alcohol of like desperation and
gratitude all rolled and
i've never heard any i mean it's
brilliant because it's like 50
desperation 50 gratitude
and i know you're a resilient guy so you
manage it well but there's a part of me
that says that like you know that kid is
going to be a little bit
more peaceful if they didn't hoard food
right and i think there's a way for you
to like
continue being successful
without being driven by
like the fear of going back to where you
were like i also have a past
that drives me forward but i don't think
i'm
ever gonna be back to you know like
no one can take it away from me like
even if i lose my job
lose my license or whatever like i'm
going to be a doctor
because that's what i am i'm going to be
me
and and so i think that there is a there
is actually like a
i think there's a road forward for you
i'm not saying you're in a bad place by
any means but i think if you really want
to understand buddhism like
there's always one step closer to
freedom from suffering
and i think the problem with with your
step is that it
involves actually giving up something
that has become very adaptive for you
right yeah what would it mean adaptive
well because it's what makes you
successful i guess yeah
that never wanting to be at the bank
again in that fear
that pushes you to not take a day off in
five years
pushes you to you know what like 10
million
subscribers on youtube i'm almost at 11
yeah
right and and so like who can say that
you're playing the game
wrong like you're playing the game
fantastically
and i'm i'm going to venture that
there's a better way to play it because
there's still some suffering there
yeah you know it's kind of goofy because
like i was so lazy about everything in
my life
and i was so lazy i didn't want to i did
the bare minimum for everything
even when i worked at the bank i did the
bare minimum and then all of a sudden
you give me something that i'm actually
genuinely good at something i know about
i'm more driven than i've ever been my
life dude i
i love that you said that because that's
like that's what i've been trying to
explain to like our community
is that they describe themselves as like
lazy and undisciplined right they're
like oh i'm
such a fuck-up yeah and and like this is
we see this actually
in our coaches so
um it was interesting we had a we had a
really good session
yesterday with these parents and then
like the parents were talking about how
their kids were like
the kids thought that they were
worthless they were like yeah i'm so
worthless
i'm such a screw-up um you know i can't
succeed at anything and like like our
coach was like yeah that used to be me
like i used to feel that way
and then i started coaching and now it's
like
i love it like you know i'm i'm
independent like i
you know i do like i wake up every day
and i like make the world a better place
and it's awesome and i'm not lazy i'm
not undisciplined
yeah you got you got to find something
that that inspires you
you have to have something to look
forward to the next day every day
you have to look forward to something
something that inspires you
um like even if it's like that's why a
lot of people um
you know like with children when they if
they have children they'll be inspired
to work hard
for their child like that their child
literally inspires them
like where's that where's that uh from
from the simpsons you know he's got that
picture of a
uh why can't i think is his child's name
but you know when he's working he's
thinking about
his little baby yeah
absolutely listen jason do you um are
you interested in meditation at all
i tried it it was the most difficult
thing i've ever attempted my life
it was so hard i couldn't so what you
can go on sorry
you're so hard yep what was hard about
it
um so like just not thinking about
anything
is the most difficult thing in the world
that's maybe
what meditation is but okay well well
that's that's the goal that the goal is
to just sit there focus on your breath
and all that stuff
um but to really just
focu to block out everything else all
the outside world is focus on
you know uh simple breathing tactics is
hard
it's very hard yeah so i think this is
where you know especially for people who
have adhd
i recommend particular meditations
yeah um because slowing down your mind
is not going to work for you
so entering a no mind state involves
speeding it up
so if you have adhd the kinds of
meditation techniques that i recommend
so if we say like you're saying that the
goal of meditation is a no mind state
right
yeah i guess okay so sure that's a good
way to put it so like if we think about
a no mind state
it's a mind that's still right
okay and so what you're saying is i have
a lot of trouble staying still
well it's not about this thing so like i
can sit there i just get bored oh my
goodness
we're talking about your mind your mind
staying still yeah right
so you're it's hard for your mind to
stay still so there are two ways
to get a mind to stay still one is like
telling it to stay still and you're like
don't move
stay right there no moving and then your
mind is like [ __ ] that
i'm gonna go do all this cool stuff the
other way to get your mind to stay still
is to have it run instead of telling it
to be still
actually pushing it to move as fast as
it can you run buddy you run run run go
mine go go go
go go go go go go go go go go and at the
end of that running
it'll naturally be still yeah
does that make sense yeah i mean i love
working out i work out every day
um it's one of my favorite things to do
if i don't work out i feel horrible i
feel
angry i feel like i don't know i just
feel i don't feel good so i always feel
better when i after i work out i just
feel
like a better happier person it's it's
like meditation in its own way
yes so i think that that's a good form
of meditation like physical exercise
uh since i can't if you are willing if
you're open to trying something i'm
gonna try to give you
let me just think about what we can do
because my favorite adhd meditations you
can't do over the internet
um but i can try to come up with
something that we can try
sure just hit or miss
sure let me just think about this
oh yeah i've got a good one
okay can you um can you stand
sure let me put my standing desk up okay
going up
i'm gonna have to stand too
all right so we might hear you without
my headphones because i don't have
speakers
okay so why don't you just hang hang
tight there for a second
uh i'm gonna have to mute the desktop
audio for a second okay so don't uh
we can't hear you either okay i'm gonna
demonstrate
oh [ __ ] how am i gonna do this because i
do wanna
you're standing right but you can
you can stand there comfortably okay
cool i can still walk you through this
okay this is what we're gonna do
right
so
how far let's do this
you can stand next to your computer it's
totally fine all right what we're gonna
do
is oh i gotta move this one too
so i'm gonna stand
like this okay
okay so i've got to get here i've got my
knee i don't know
yep
okay okay and
i want you to close your eyes
just stay stable and now i want you to
tell me what
eyes closed tell me what you had for
breakfast this morning
i didn't eat breakfast i don't eat
breakfast what'd you
have the day before stay still all right
it's hard to be on someone but it's
uh well i signed for dinner i had some
sort of pasta that was really
yummy okay so now i want you to stop
talking and just focus on staying still
what do you notice hard to balance
good i can do this though yeah you can
switch legs
can i open my eyes yes open your eyes
all right that's much easier i have my
eyes
a lot easier yep okay so
now tell me about what you ate two days
ago
for dinner what do i have i have no idea
there's probably some sort of pasta or
something
i have something called um i got i
recently got this like food service
things
really nice called tavala oven so it's
like basically like oven cooked meals
but it's like
delivered it's really cool okay so i
want you to
now close your eyes for a moment and
let's stop talking and i want you to
notice the difficulty yeah it's hard to
balance just like yep
open your eyes open your eyes easily
okay good
close
when you need to you can open
close again
open okay you can relax for a moment
so let's talk about this okay so okay
it gets hot oh i guess people can't hear
you because i'm muted
um so
when your eyes were closed when your
eyes were open what were you able to
think about
uh i i don't know i wasn't really
thinking of anything
[Music]
so you were answering my questions yeah
i was answering your questions but i
really wasn't thinking of anything
okay and when your eyes were closed what
were you thinking about um
well with the questions you asked me i
was struggling with and then
um i was focused focused on
trying to balance so it was really hard
yeah what was your mind doing um
like what was it thinking about yeah
i don't i don't think i was really
thinking much about anything because
it was oh so the physical activity that
was a distraction got it
so let's understand okay let's be
precise with our language okay so first
thing
what is the mind the mind is the
presence of thoughts
yeah right so when you're adhd like when
people say i'm adhd what does that mean
practically it means
that their mind thinks all kinds of
random things
and so you're like meditation is the
hardest thing in the world because i
can't get my mind to focus on one thing
that's why it's hard yeah
and yet in 60 seconds
you've managed to get your mind to not
think about anything when was the last
time you didn't think about anything
it's been a while but um yeah it's been
a while
yeah right so
meditation for you so meditation starts
with one pointedness of the mind
focusing all of your attention on one
thing
now your problem is that you [ __ ]
probably went to some mindfulness person
who told you to observe your breath
and you're like your mind is like [ __ ]
that so what we're gonna do
is try to give your mind as many things
to juggle as possible
okay and there's nothing wrong with you
that that you have trouble balancing
with your
eyes closed that's just our our body has
three
balancing mechanisms eyesight
our dorsal columns which is like
proprioception and then like
part of our um our ear canal
yeah we have a vestibular apparatus and
so when you take one of those away
balancing becomes a lot harder
so what i did is like try to create a
scenario where like your mind has
no choice
that's cool to focus on one thing
because it's like i can't [ __ ]
talk about what i ate because i'm busy
right now
yeah right and so for you what you need
to do is like you just
and that's what i mean by making your
mind run
where like your mind is like no i don't
this is easy for me i'm like okay fine
let's
bump up the difficulty baby let's go as
hard as you can go like
max difficulty so in your case i think
this is a balancing exercise now the
tricky thing is
as you get better at balancing as your
body learns your mind is gonna get bored
again
right okay so you can do this for a
little while
and then you gotta find something
different yes and this is why
advanced yoga postures exist people
don't understand this
yoga has nothing to do with your body i
mean that's something to do about it but
it's not really about body
the reason that people do yoga postures
is because
the posture should bring your attention
to the present
it should demand your attention that's
why you start with easy ones
and as those get easy you get more bendy
because the bendier you get
the more of your mental attention it
demands
it's so exhausting during i didn't edit
yoga like twice in my life it's so
exhausting you're just like mentally
exhausted afterwards
yes that's the point it's a mental
activity not a physical one
so in your case you can do this business
you know this arms above your head and
balancing on one foot
um and then like like what you want to
do is like basically
like make it hard on yourself so in your
case so for some people
asking them questions becomes easier or
harder in your case it seems like eyes
is sufficient
so eyes open if your eyes are open it
becomes easy and then your mind is going
to start to wander
yeah and then eyes closed oh [ __ ] panic
mode
panic mode we got to focus everybody on
board
all the attention in one place and it's
automatic
if meditation is hard for you that means
that you're not learning it the right
way meditation isn't supposed to be hard
it's supposed to be that was easy that
was easy thank you
yeah so give that a shot and then you
know
you can try practicing that and other
kinds of physical postures and
you know maybe you know we ever meet
again or whatever like are you
if you have other questions we'll have
to figure out some way to like
teach you lesson number two sure cool
um any questions about the meditation
practice or
anything any kind of last thoughts or
comments no i'm good
this was very fun thank you for inviting
me thank you for coming on man
i i really really appreciate it it's
been absolutely a pleasure to talk to
you
yeah yeah um yeah a bunch of streamers
recommended
and that i i i i join in everything so
yeah
it's wonderful yeah thank you very much
and and you guys just want to
because i know we're streaming on twitch
but um do you want to tell us just
i think pretty much everyone knows who
you are but for the few people that may
not know who you are
and and what you do yeah i'm i'm daily
dose of internet on
on youtube and i have almost 11 million
subscribers
um i make i take the best trending
videos
from around the world and i put them all
into
one video twice a week that's only about
three minutes long
so i only need six minutes of your
attention once a week
i think about you as the npr of memes
yeah yeah it's because i want to be uh i
want to be
as soon as you do something so the
reason why everything is
very uh family-friendly
is because as soon as you do something
you're basically alienating an audience
as soon as you swear
as soon as you do energy
so i try to i try to form it in a way
that's family-friendly but doesn't feel
family-friendly i could take some
pointers from you on that
um so people are asking
for to say the line what does that mean
um
that's the end of the stream i really
hope you enjoyed and
i'll see you guys again very very soon
later
thanks man take care jason bye dr k
thank you
bye yeah so
that was fun he's a cool guy
so are we rating danino